pumpkin takes an admirable look at the hypocrisy of political correctness , but it does so with such an uneven tone that you never know when humor ends and tragedy begins .
the iditarod lasts for days - this just felt like it did .
holden caulfield did it better .
a delectable and intriguing thriller filled with surprises , read my lips is an original .
seldom has a movie so closely matched the spirit of a man and his work .
nicks , seemingly uncertain what 's going to make people laugh , runs the gamut from stale parody to raunchy sex gags to formula romantic comedy .
the action switches between past and present , but the material link is too tenuous to anchor the emotional connections that purport to span a 125-year divide .
it 's an offbeat treat that pokes fun at the democratic exercise while also examining its significance for those who take part .
it 's a cookie-cutter movie , a cut-and-paste job .
i had to look away - this was god awful .
thanks to scott 's charismatic roger and eisenberg 's sweet nephew , roger dodger is one of the most compelling variations on in the company of men .
... designed to provide a mix of smiles and tears , `` crossroads '' instead provokes a handful of unintentional howlers and numerous yawns .
a gorgeous , witty , seductive movie .
if the movie succeeds in instilling a wary sense of ` there but for the grace of god , ' it is far too self-conscious to draw you deeply into its world .
it does n't believe in itself , it has no sense of humor ... it 's just plain bored .
a sequence of ridiculous shoot - 'em - up scenes .
the weight of the piece , the unerring professionalism of the chilly production , and the fascination embedded in the lurid topic prove recommendation enough .
( w ) hile long on amiable monkeys and worthy environmentalism , jane goodall 's wild chimpanzees is short on the thrills the oversize medium demands .
as surreal as a dream and as detailed as a photograph , as visually dexterous as it is at times imaginatively overwhelming .
escaping the studio , piccoli is warmly affecting and so is this adroitly minimalist movie .
