Cedar Falls, Iowa (CNN)As aides politely tried to rush Ted Cruz from an event in Cedar Falls to one in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Thursday, the presidential candidate continued shaking hands with anyone who wanted to meet him. Finally, after the selfies and conversations started to die down, his aides managed to move him closer to the door when a tall, burly man stopped him. "Senator," he said, "can I pray with you real quick?" "Yeah," Cruz said, as he clasped the man's upper arm and the two bowed their heads. It was one of the many moments when Cruz connected with voters on a religious level last week, as the senator from Texas hit the trail in Iowa for the first time as a presidential candidate. Being the only official contender in the race, Cruz drew large crowds during his two-day swing across the state. He's counting on Iowa, known for its vocal and active evangelical base, to propel him forward in what's expected to be a tough competition among a crowded field of GOP candidates. Cruz, himself, displays a pastoral swagger when he is speaking on stage and working a room. The senator regularly avoids using a podium, instead favoring pacing the stage with a wireless microphone, a scene reminiscent of a Sunday morning sermon. When he meets with people after events, he embraces each one's hand with both of his, softens his usually theatric tone and looks people square in the eye -- a familiar interaction between churchgoing Christians and their pastors. The past two winners of Iowa's caucuses rose to victory with support from the Christian right, and Cruz, who announced his bid last month at the well-known Baptist school Liberty University, is aiming to energize that same base and claim the coveted state as his prize. Evangelicals make up a large segment of Iowa's Republican voter bloc. According to a Des Moines Register/Bloomberg Politics poll from January, 44% of likely 2016 Republican caucus-goers said they were born-again or evangelical Christians. Cruz has built a brand as a stalwart conservative willing to buck GOP leadership on fiscal issues, but he showed in Iowa last week that he's also eager to champion social issues at a time when many Republicans are anxious to avoid them. He was one of the loudest defenders of the religious freedom law in Indiana, which came under fire last week for what critics called paving a path to discrimination against gays and lesbians. He described the outrage over the laws as "shameful" and an "assault" on First Amendment rights. "There are a lot of people here in Iowa and across the country whose hearts are breaking, watching what has happened in the last two weeks," Cruz said Friday night at an event in Des Moines. "We have seen a grossly unfair vilification of religious liberty." RELATED: Republican 2016 hopefuls back Indiana's 'religious freedom' law . He's more than comfortable talking about his own faith and telling the story of how his father became a Christian and a pastor. Rafael Cruz, who's become a celebrity among Christian conservatives, will frequently visit Iowa over the next year, Cruz told voters. And Cruz's Iowa director, Bryan English, is a former pastor. Cruz's first television ads are appearing this weekend during programs on Fox News and NBC that are pegged to Easter Sunday. In the ad, Cruz talks about the impact of the "transformative love of Jesus Christ" on his life. While neither Mike Huckabee, who won Iowa in 2008, nor Rick Santorum, who won in 2012, went on to win the nomination, their successes helped launch them into high-profile battles with the then-front-runners. And with both of them likely running again in 2016, the competition will be stiff. That's why, for Cruz, courting evangelicals is only a component of a three-pronged strategy to win the nomination that also includes dominating the tea party faction and competing for the libertarian base. His stump speech hits on elements that appeal to each faction. He received standing ovations last week for calling to abolish the IRS, and, in a knock against the National Security Agency, he frequently tells audiences to leave their cell phones on so President Obama "can hear every word I have to say." Cruz argued Thursday that the Republican Party needs to bridge the gap between what he described as the Ron Paul-Rand Paul faction of the party -- young libertarian-minded voters -- and the Santorum base -- evangelicals. The two blocs, he said, are "not necessarily the best of chums." "If we're going to win, we've got to bring that coalition together," he said in Cedar Falls. "And I think we can do that." Cruz frequently says he wants to see a return of the evangelical vote to 2004 levels, when more than six in 10 evangelicals voted in the presidential election, a higher than normal turnout for the demographic. That number has waned slightly since 2004 -- but it's not too far off from the 56% of the overall population that voted in 2012. Still, his campaign believes that if it can tap into the group of evangelicals who've been staying home and get the demographic as a whole to overperform, then that could mean the difference of millions more at the polls. "If you look at available places for the party to expand the vote, it doesn't exist in the middle, it exists in the evangelical vote," said Rick Tyler, a top Cruz adviser. "It isn't a pond, it's an unfished ocean of available voters who are conservative." Russell Moore, president of the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, said he expects to see record turnout among evangelicals in 2016 no matter who the nominee is or what that person says. Moore points to hot-button topics like religious freedom issues in the U.S., as well as increased attention to the killing of minority Christians in the Middle East and rising anti-Semitism. "I don't think a candidate is going to be able to get very far simply by using evangelical lingo or by pointing to his or her personal faith," Moore said. "I think a candidate is going to have to explain how he or she would protect religious liberty and would appoint justices and judges who will maintain the common good." Later in April, voters in Iowa will see the bulk of the GOP field tackle these issues when they take the stage at an event hosted by the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition. While the past two winners of the Iowa caucuses -- Santorum and Huckabee -- are likely running for president again, Steve Scheffler, president of the group, argued that the field is wide open in terms of who's going to win favor among evangelicals. Jeb Bush, while not popular among conservative activists, was known for his staunch anti-abortion record as Florida governor and touts his Catholic faith as a big force behind his policy views. Scott Walker is the son of a pastor. Ben Carson, the former neurosurgeon, rose to fame in conservative circles after criticizing the Obama administration at a national prayer breakfast. And other likely candidates -- from Marco Rubio to Rick Perry to Rand Paul -- have made serious efforts to court the religious right. "It's up for grabs. It's a clean slate regardless of if you've run before," Scheffler said. "Naturally those two (Huckabee and Santorum) have the name recognition and database of people who supported them in the past, but by and large voters are going to say, 'Let me take a good look at all of these candidates.'"
(CNN)One hundred and forty-seven victims. Many more families affected. Even more broken hopes and dreams. As Kenyans mourned those killed last week in one of the deadliest terrorist attacks in the nation, citizens used social media to share the victims' stories, hopes and dreams. Using the hashtag #147notjustanumber -- a reference to the number of people, mostly students, killed at Garissa University College on Thursday -- Kenyans tweeted pictures of the victims in happier times. Kenyan authorities have not released a list of the victims. The posts provided heart-wrenching details on the victims, including one about an elderly man whose dreams died with his son. He had reportedly taken a loan to educate him at the university, where he was killed by Al-Shabaab terrorists. The attack in Kenya killed 142 students, three security officers and two university security personnel, and was the nation's deadliest since the bombing of the U.S. Embassy in 1998. Kenyan churches mourned the dead during Easter services Sunday as armed guards protected the congregations. In emotional services nationwide, churchgoers wept as they paid tribute to the victims of the massacre. The gunmen who attacked the university in the predawn hours separated Muslims from Christians and killed the latter. The extremist group has also killed Muslims in recent attacks. The Interior Ministry has identified one of the attackers killed by security forces as the son of a government official. The father of suspect Abdirahim Abdullahi is a chief in Mandera and had reported his son missing, officials said. The Islamist extremist group is based in Somalia, but it hasn't confined its terrorism to the nation that shares a border with Kenya. In 2013, militants attacked Nairobi's upscale Westgate Mall, killing nearly 70 people.
(CNN)The California Public Utilities Commission on Thursday said it is ordering Pacific Gas & Electric Co. to pay a record $1.6 billion penalty for unsafe operation of its gas transmission system, including the pipeline rupture that killed eight people in San Bruno in September 2010. Most of the penalty amounts to forced spending on improving pipeline safety. Of the $1.6 billion, $850 million will go to "gas transmission pipeline safety infrastructure improvements," the commission said. Another $50 million will go toward "other remedies to enhance pipeline safety," according to the commission. "PG&E failed to uphold the public's trust," commission President Michael Picker said. "The CPUC failed to keep vigilant. Lives were lost. Numerous people were injured. Homes were destroyed. We must do everything we can to ensure that nothing like this happens again." The company's chief executive officer said in a written statement that PG&E is working to become the safest energy company in the United States. "Since the 2010 explosion of our natural gas transmission pipeline in San Bruno, we have worked hard to do the right thing for the victims, their families and the community of San Bruno," Tony Earley said. "We are deeply sorry for this tragic event, and we have dedicated ourselves to re-earning the trust of our customers and the communities we serve. The lessons of this tragic event will not be forgotten." On September 9, 2010, a section of PG&E pipeline exploded in San Bruno, killing eight people and injuring more than 50 others. The blast destroyed 37 homes. PG&E said it has paid more than $500 million in claims to the victims and victims' families in San Bruno, which is just south of San Francisco. The company also said it has already replaced more than 800 miles of pipe, installed new gas leak technology and implemented nine of 12 recommendations from the National Transportation Safety Board. According to its website, PG&E has 5.4 million electric customers and 4.3 million natural gas customers. The Los Angeles Times reported the previous record penalty was a $146 million penalty against Southern California Edison Company in 2008 for falsifying customer and worker safety data. CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
Boston (CNN)Guilty across the board. But will he face death? After deliberating for 11½ hours, jurors found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev guilty on Wednesday of all 30 counts he faced in the Boston Marathon bombing trial. Seventeen of the 30 counts were capital charges, meaning he is eligible for the death penalty. The trial will next move into a penalty phase, where the jury will hear testimony and arguments from both sides and ultimately be tasked with deciding whether Tsarnaev, 21, will be executed. A look at all of the charges . Jurors will be asked to weigh aggravating factors such as the heinousness of his crimes against mitigating factors such as his family and mental health history, as well as his relative youth. Tsarnaev was 19 at the time of the bombing. The start date of the penalty phase has not yet been set. Since testimony began March 4, federal prosecutors have called 92 witnesses, and the defense just four. It seemed a mismatch from the start. "He was there," Tsarnaev's defense attorney Judy Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but many say the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life. Tsarnaev lawyer keeps hated criminals off death row . Clarke tried to convince jurors that her client's older brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died in a shootout with police days after the terror attack, was the instigator of the marathon plot. The younger man, Clarke said, was only following his older brother. After the verdict, CNN legal analyst Paul Callan said Clarke now faces an uphill battle. "Because No. 1, he (Tsarnaev) is almost functioning as an officer of a military organization attacking the United States -- the claim of course that he's an Islamic radical and that this is almost an army-like attack on civilians. "And the second thing -- it was so well planned and so callously planned so that civilians would die, so that children would be maimed. And all of this, she has to get around and convince the jury he's not worthy of the death penalty. "Boy, she's climbing the Mount Everest of death penalty cases in this case," Callan said about Clarke. Survivors react to the verdict . Ann O'Neill reported from Boston. Dana Ford reported from Atlanta.
(CNN)Four workers died in a massive oil rig fire that raged for hours off the coast of Mexico Wednesday. Mexican state oil company Pemex said 45 workers were injured in the blaze, which began early Wednesday morning. Two of them are in serious condition, the company said. Authorities evacuated about 300 people from the Abkatun Permanente platform after the fire started, Pemex said. At least 10 boats worked to battle the blaze for hours. The fire had been extinguished by Wednesday night, Pemex said in a Twitter post. The company denied rumors that the platform had collapsed and said there was no oil spill as a result of the fire. The state oil company hasn't said what caused the fire on the platform, which is located in the Gulf of Mexico's Campeche Sound. The fire began in the platform's dehydration and pumping area, Pemex said. CNN's Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.
(CNN)Easter is unique on the Christian calendar, a major point in the cycle of the religious year, and one that has always been able to resist the commercialization and culture warring that surrounds Christmas. That's in part because Easter is genuinely about how religious impulses, and patterns, can operate in ways that affect our lives. Nevertheless, I'm often surprised by how little people, even those supposedly within the Christian tradition, actually know about what is called Holy Week and its culmination on Easter Sunday.   At a time when our culture is roiled by questions of identity and ethics (and tolerance) that have profound religious implications, it's worth pausing to explore this crucial holiday -- and the awareness of the human condition, in all its sadness and glory, that it engenders. After all, Holy Week calls mostly to those who incline their minds and hearts in its direction with seriousness of intent.  Still, the fuss must puzzle those looking on, wondering what it all means.  Why do Christians make so much of this springtime week, and make so much of Easter weekend? There is a phrase that many never come across, even among Christians:  Easter Triduum.  This refers to the three days of Easter that begin with Good Friday, proceed through Holy Saturday, and conclude with Easter Sunday.  It's definitely a progression, although the word itself -- triduum -- can refer to any three days of prayer. Easter Triduum has a kind of major prologue in Maundy Thursday, the day when, by tradition, Jesus celebrated the Last Supper with his disciples in the upper room in Jerusalem on the night before he was crucified.  The idea of Holy Communion begins with this meal, which was a Passover meal. Jesus, of course, was Jewish, as were all his disciples.  He was never trying to erase Judaism and found a new religion.  His work involved modifying and extending Judaism in fresh ways. On Maundy Thursday, Christians sometimes practice the washing of feet, recalling that Jesus washed the very dusty feet of his disciples at the Last Supper as a way of demonstrating profound humility -- showing that he was himself a servant -- and modeling a kind of ideal behavior. Good Friday isn't, in fact, so good.  It's the day of the crucifixion, when Jesus was scourged and beaten, forced to carry his cross to Golgotha, the "place of the skull," and nailed to the cross itself for what must have been an agonizing death.  The actual scene of the Crucifixion varies from gospel to gospel, as do his last words, assembled into the so-called "seven last words" of Jesus by adding up fragments from different gospels. Some of these words are quotations, as when Jesus asked God why he has abandoned him:  This is a quote from the 22nd Psalm, which opens:  "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?"  Good Friday is a day of death, sacrifice, displacement, fear. Holy Saturday is probably the least understood day of the Easter Triduum.  It's a passageway between the darkness of the crucifixion and the bright hope of Easter.  This day occupies an anxious space in human experience, when the certain knowledge of something dreadful isn't quite erased -- can't be erased -- simply by hope.  It's a day of depression, a day of suspension. Then comes Easter, with the aura of the resurrection.  I'm always moved by the deep symbolism of this mythic moment, when the body of Christ becomes what is called a "glorified body."  This was not, as I've said elsewhere, the Great Resuscitation, although that's part of it, too.  Resurrection implies a total transformation, something beyond the physical realm. It's very important that almost nobody who encounters Jesus after the resurrection can really recognize him, know him, or understand him as the same person who was with them before he was crucified.  Easter embraces the great mystery of resurrection, with its promise of transformation -- a shift from one form to another, and a change that moves well beyond any literal understanding. The three days of Easter, the Triduum, occur only once a year on the calendar.  But the really interesting thing is that we all experience the pattern of the three days again and again.  We find ourselves emptied out in small ways, nailed to our own trees in life, embarrassed or broken by life. It was the Buddha who famously observed that life is suffering.  Good Friday embodies the Christian version of that truth.  Jesus suffered in the way all of us must suffer.  We must all die, perhaps less ignominiously but just as certainly.  Our friends and families must die.  We all experience illness, loss, sadness, a loss of confidence, darkness.  This is simply part of the human experience. We dive again and again into Holy Saturday, too -- a period of transition, when the bleakness of suffering is perhaps slightly behind us but nothing restorative seems in view.  We know well this in-between time; it's an anxious passage, with only a glimmer on the horizon of potential hope. And we've all been resurrected, again and again, perhaps in tiny ways.  This is the joy of Easter, and it's not something reserved for one day on the calendar.  It's there whenever we experience what T.S. Eliot once called the "timeless moment," which can only occur -- paradoxically -- in time itself.  It's a mystical point where timelessness intersects with time. I suspect we all experience the Triduum frequently, sometimes more than once in a single day.  But the ritual enactment of these three days of the Easter season reminds all of those who practice Christianity -- and perhaps those who don't -- that we should expect to move through darkness into light. It's a pattern that describes a kind of spiritual progression.   It's good cause for celebration, too:  and one that won't easily be co-opted by secular culture.
(CNN)Police in India are putting aside their batons in favor of an overhead solution to angry and unruly crowds: pepper-spraying drones. Yashasvi Yadav, Senior Superintendent of police in Lucknow, northern India, told CNN the city's force has bought four drones and is in the process of purchasing one more. "The drones have been tested in controlled conditions," he said. "They have been very successful and will be used by the Lucknow police whenever there are violent protests or mob attacks." The miniature aircraft will be fitted with a camera and pepper spray; each drone costs between $9,560 and $19,300, Yadav added. Views on the new measure are mixed, with some concerned about the suppression of freedom of speech -- an already contentious issue in India. Last month, the country failed to enforce a law that would allow authorities to arrest people who post offensive material on social media. Others believe the country could learn from events further afield. Some say this method of crowd control needs regulation too. Questions have also been raised as to why the police are resorting to aggression. "While I think it is bound to fail if not be another scam in the making, it also shows the mindset of the administration to not use dialogue and mediation to solve problems but use authoritarian and forceful methods," photojournalist Chirag Wakaskar in Mumbai told CNN. "What they could do is start by having video surveillance in sensitive areas and have swifter justice." Protests are a common occurrence in India, a country with a population of 1.2 billion; Lucknow, the capital of the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, also used drone cameras to monitor crowds at a recent religious festival. As well as being used as a security measure in other cities including Delhi and Mumbai, the unmanned, airborne vehicles have been used in tiger hunts, disaster relief and criminal investigations -- and even pizza deliveries. Reports suggest that the drone surveillance will be officially launched by the Chief Minister of Lucknow, Akhilesh Yadav, later this month. Kunal Sehgal contributed to this report.
(CNN)Just as the agency begins to recover from a series of high-profile missteps, the Secret Service is facing yet another scandal. A female employee accused Xavier Morales, a supervisor within the agency, of assault after he made sexual advances at  her, according to The Washington Post. "The woman told police and agency investigators that Morales, her boss, told her during the party at Capitol City Brewing Company that he was in love with her and would like to have sex with her," and later tried to kiss her in the office, according to a report from The Washington Post. During the incident, he "grabbed her arms when she resisted" and the two tussled until Morales gave up, sources told the paper. The Post reports that the March 31 party was in celebration of Morales' new assignment as head of the Louisville field office. A Secret Service spokesperson confirms that  Morales was placed on administrative leave and his security clearance was suspended. This incident was first reported on April 2, and Secret Service Director Joe Clancy was briefed that afternoon. Clancy called the allegations "very disturbing." "Any threats or violence that endangers our employees in  the workplace is unacceptable and will not be tolerated," he said in a statement. This is just the latest chapter for an organization embroiled in scandal over the past several months. Last month, two top-ranking officials were suspended following an incident at a White House command post during an investigation of a possible bomb. Clancy was not made aware of the episode until five days later. The agency has also faced scrutiny for another lapse in late January when a drone crash-landed on the White House lawn. Secret Service Director Julia Pierson resigned in September after a fence-jumper gained access to the East Room of the White House. Earlier in September, an armed security contractor was allowed to get into an elevator with President Barack Obama during a trip to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. An independent report released in December found that the Secret Service is stretched "beyond its limits," needing more training, more staff, and a director from outside its ranks. Clancy, who formally assumed the post in February, is a 27-year veteran of the agency. "It's going to take time to change some of this culture," Clancy said at a House Appropriations Committee hearing last month. "There's no excuse for this information not to come up the chain. That's going to take time because I'm going to have to build trust with our workforce." The incident will be further investigated by the Office of the Inspector General.
Marseille, France (CNN)Investigators have collected all the main evidence from the site where Germanwings Flight 9525 crashed, a French national police official told CNN on Saturday. Investigators are not expected to return to the crash site, said Capt. Yves Naffrechoux of the High Mountain Gendarmerie. The plane crashed March 24 in rugged terrain of the Alps about 6 miles (10 kilometers) from the town of Seyne-les-Alpes. "All the police investigators have left the (Germanwings) crash site," he said. "There is only a private security company ensuring security around the crash site so that no one can go there." The security firm will guard the site until the remaining debris is collected and taken to secure locations for further analysis, if necessary, he said. The flight data recorder, or "black box," was found Thursday by a member of the recovery team. The cockpit voice recorder was found days after the crash. In addition, out of more than 2,000 DNA samples collected from the crash site, lab workers have isolated 150 DNA profiles, said Brice Robin, Marseilles prosecutor. The crash killed all 150 people on board. Brice Robin, Marseilles prosecutor, said authorities have found 470 personnel effects at the site. That number includes 40 cell phones, though all those were badly damaged. Robin cast doubt that any useful information could be retrieved from those phones, given their condition. Authorities say the flight's co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz, locked the captain out of the cockpit and engineered the plane's demise. Initial tests on the flight data recorder show that Lubitz purposely used the controls to speed up the plane's descent, according to the French air accident investigation agency, the BEA. It also has emerged that Lubitz had battled depression years before he took the controls of Flight 9525 and that he had concealed from his employer recent medical leave notes saying he was unfit for work. Calls for crash avoidance technology . CNN's Margot Haddad reported from Marseille, and Greg Botelho wrote from Atlanta. CNN's Laura Smith-Spark contributed to this report.
(CNN)Pardon us, "Lost" fans, but April 8 wasn't only your day. Yes, we know the significance of April 8, 2015, and the alignment of 4:23.42 p.m. on that date to everyone obsessed with the hit ABC show, and we heard about the general geek-outs that were occurring. But don't forget, April 8 was also "Rex Manning Day." Twitter didn't, paying homage to the 1995 film "Empire Records" and the character of Rex Manning, played by the very dreamy Maxwell Caulfield. The movie -- also starring Liv Tyler, Anthony LaPaglia and Renée Zellweger -- centers on an independent record store in Delaware where, on April 8, former pop idol Manning is scheduled to make an in-store appearance. Fret not if you missed it, as we have some other dates made famous by films that you aren't going to want to let pass you by: . April 14 . Their love affair was doomed like two ships passing in the night, but it was so good while it lasted for Jack and Rose in the 1997 blockbuster movie "Titanic." The sketch Jack does of his beloved is dated April 14, 1912. The Titanic sank on April 15, 1912. April 25 . Thanks to the 2000 film "Miss Congeniality," we now know that April 25 is the perfect date. Just don't forget to dress accordingly. October 3 . "Mean Girls Day" is officially October 3, given that's when Aaron Samuels (OMG, he is so hot!) asks Cady what day it is. Of course, she replies "It's October 3." Honestly, any day is a good day to quote the 2004 film. It's so fetch. October 21, 2015 . Buckle up for this one. In the 1989 film "Back to the Future Part II," Marty McFly and the gang travel to October 21, 2015. We hope to be celebrating that in our flying car that we are STILL waiting on, please and thank you.
(CNN)They're not gonna take it anymore. Really. Twisted Sister says that its 2016 tour will be its last, according to a press release. Next year marks the band's 40th anniversary, and to celebrate, the tour is being titled "Forty and F*ck It." "It's official: Farewell," Twisted Sister singer Dee Snider posted on Facebook. Snider also noted that the band will play with a new drummer, Mike Portnoy of Adrenaline Mob. Portnoy replaces A.J. Pero, who died March 20. The band will also perform two shows in Pero's honor: one at Las Vegas' Hard Rock Hotel and Casino, the other at the Starland Ballroom in Sayreville, New Jersey. The latter is in support of Pero's family. Twisted Sister's biggest hit, "We're Not Gonna Take It," hit the Top Forty in 1984 and was featured in a popular video.
(The Hollywood Reporter)"Grace of Monaco," starring Nicole Kidman as star-turned-princess Grace Kelly, is heading straight to Lifetime. The critically-panned film, which opened last year's Cannes Film Festival, will premiere on Lifetime on Memorial Day, May 25. After the movie performed poorly in its international engagements, The Weinstein Co., which first purchased U.S. distribution rights at the 2013 Berlin Film Festival, decided to sell it directly to Lifetime rather than book it into U.S. theaters, a source confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter. THR: Grace of Monaco' Cannes review . The film, which was directed by Olivier Dahan and focuses on a period in the early '60s when Monaco was involved in a stand-off over taxes with France and Grace was contemplating a return to Hollywood, was originally scheduled for release in late 2013. Given the names involved, some handicappers had put it on their list of potential Oscar contenders. But when TWC pulled it out of awards contention and shifted its release to March 14, 2014, Dahan lashed out at TWC's Harvey Weinstein, over the movie's final cut, which the director was in the process of completing. "There are two versions of the film for now, mine and his," Dahan complained, continuing, "They want a commercial film smelling of daisies, taking out anything that exceeds that which is too abrupt, anything that makes it cinematic and breathe with life." That planned March release was then scrubbed, when Cannes expressed interest in debuting the director's version of the movie in May. Even before it screened, though, Grace's children blasted the picture as "needlessly glamorized and historically inaccurate" and boycotting the Cannes red carpet. THR: The Weinstein Co. nearing deal to keep 'Grace of Monaco' Weinstein didn't attend the movie's premiere either -- explaining that he had been visiting Syrian refugee camps in Jordan as part of a long-scheduled U.N.-sponsored trip. But TWC did strike a new distribution deal for the film in Cannes, agreeing to show Dahan's cut in the U.S., but acquiring rights for just $3 million upfront, a $2 million discount from its earlier contract. But TWC then did not slot "Grace of Monaco" into its fall, 2015 release schedule. Tim Roth costars as Kelly's husband Prince Rainier III, Frank Langella as Kelly's priest and confidante, Parker Posey as Grace's aid, and Paz Vega ("Spanglish," "Sex and Lucia") as opera singer Maria Callas. See the original story at The Hollywood Reporter. ©2015 The Hollywood Reporter. All rights reserved.
(CNN)In her 40 years living in Rochelle, Illinois, Cathy Olson had never seen a tornado that big. "I saw the top of the funnel cloud, and it was absolutely massive," she said. She watched the hulking gray twister grind past her town Thursday, tearing up its fringes. Farther north, in the rural Illinois hamlet of Fairdale, one person died as a twister shredded homes and ripped trees bare of leaves and most limbs. Only the thickest branches remained standing. It was the only death reported so far in two days of tornado touchdowns. Rochelle was fortunate. But in nearby Kirkland, debris was so thick on the roads, responders searching for trapped residents could not yet assess the damage or injuries, fire officials said. On Thursday, a video surfaced on YouTube of a massive twister barreling across an open field, barely missing farmhouses and barns. Images of the funnel turned up elsewhere on social media. Multiple tornadoes ripped through the rural Midwest on Thursday. A  large and dangerous twister tore across fields in Iowa. And a twister touched down 70 miles outside of St. Louis. Eight tornadoes were reported Wednesday in Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri, the Storm Prediction Center said. But it appears residents have been fortunate enough to come away from the terrifying weather spectacle alive. Hail stones the size of tennis balls plummeted down on Ashton, Illinois. It could have been worse as severe tornado damage dotted a path not far from the dense populations of Chicago and Rockford -- the state's third largest city.  The tornado cut a 22-mile path through Ogle County, according to disaster management coordinator Tom Richter. North of Rochelle, a tornado took away a local favorite restaurant -- Grubsteakers.  "It's kind of one of your little greasy spoon restaurants," said Eric Widick, who drove up in his truck to help out. "We're a community. If one person is in need, we'll all be there for them." People were inside when the storm quashed Grubsteakers and turned over a semitruck parked outside. No one was killed or seriously injured,  Widick said. Although a patron who found shelter in a restroom was trapped inside for about half an hour. People had been eating at Grubsteakers for some 25 years and will miss it, Widick said. In Rochelle, the tornado flattened some of Olson's friends' homes. A safe distance away from it, at her mother's house, she had to think about her husband, Chet, who was reelected mayor of the town of about 10,000 people the day before. He'd have a job ahead of him. "I have not been able to get a hold of him, Olson said, "but I know he's in touch with the sheriff and is safe," she said. Sheriff Brian VanVickle told journalists late Thursday that the tornado had spared life and limb in Ogle County aside from some people whose injuries were easily treatable. The county lost 20 homes -- one of them was his own. Fifty to 100 houses had significant damage, he said. Only foundations remained of some homes, said storm chaser Dan Gottschalk. "You can hear the hissing everywhere from where the structures used to be," he said. Lindsey Clark, a reporter from CNN affiliate WREX, said rescuers were pulling trapped people from a home in the Rochelle area. VanVickle was newly elected sheriff of Rochelle on Wednesday. On Thursday, the storm took his house and his sister-in-law's. "I've got the clothes on my back," he said. But his family wasn't at home when it hit. "My family was on the way to Louisville, dog was in the basement and she survived." It was the first tornado the sheriff had ever seen in his county. "I've lived here all my life, am the fifth generation in the county.  My mom said this is the first time she's ever seen a tornado." He is thankful that the National Weather Service warned one could come. That saved lives, he believes. The service warned of a "particularly dangerous situation." People across the Midwest should be on alert for severe weather. Tornado watches were set to run out early Friday. CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Catherine Shoichet, Greg Botelho, Dave Alsup, Steve Almasy, Jack Maddox and Sean Morris contributed to this report.
(CNN)Eyewitness video showing white North Charleston police Officer Michael Slager shooting to death an unarmed black man has exposed discrepancies in the reports of the first officers on the scene. Slager has been fired and charged with murder in the death of 50-year-old Walter Scott. A bystander's cell phone video, which began after an alleged struggle on the ground between Slager and Scott, shows the five-year police veteran shooting at Scott eight times as Scott runs away. Scott was hit five times. If words were exchanged between the men, they're are not audible on the tape. It's unclear what happened before Scott ran, or why he ran. The officer initially said that he used a Taser on Scott, who, Slager said, tried to take the weapon. Before Slager opens fire, the video shows a dark object falling behind Scott and hitting the ground. It's unclear whether that is the Taser. Later in the video, when Slager approaches Scott's body, Slager appears to drop a dark object near Scott. Slager is seen in the video handcuffing Scott after the shooting. Witness: I nearly erased shooting video out of fear . Feidin Santana, the witness who recorded the video, said he didn't see Scott grab Slager's Taser. His account contradicts what Slager told dispatchers. In two interviews with NBC, Santana said that he was walking to his job in North Charleston on Saturday morning when he saw Slager chase Scott, who had been pulled over for a broken taillight. Santana told NBC's Lester Holt on Wednesday that he saw the two men struggling on the ground. "They were down on the (ground) ... before I started recording," Santana said. "I remember the police (officer) had control of the situation. He had control of Scott." Santana said he heard the sound of a Taser being used. He believed Scott was trying to get away from it. But Scott never got the Taser or used it on the officer, Santana told NBC. Who was Walter Scott? A North Charleston Police report included brief statements from eight police officers, but not Slager. One officer, identified as Sgt. J. Gann, said in the report he was conducting a separate traffic stop about 9:30 a.m. Saturday when he heard -- apparently via radio -- Slager say he was "in foot pursuit" of another motorist. Gann said that while driving to the officer's location, "Slager advised that he deployed his Taser and (requested) back up units." Seconds later, Gann reported, he heard Slager tell a dispatcher, "Shots fired and the subject is down. He took my Taser." Hours after the shooting, The Post and Courier of Charleston quoted a statement from police spokesman Spencer Pryor, who said Slager attempted to use his Taser to stop a fleeing suspect.  The men struggled over the device, with the suspect taking the Taser and attempting to use it against Slager, the newspaper reported. In the police report, another officer, J. Banias, said he was heading to the scene about 10 minutes after the initial call. Slager asked him to "secure his vehicle at the site of the traffic stop." Banias said he spoke to a passenger in the car Scott was driving. "The passenger was ... detained and placed in the back seat of my vehicle," the officer reported. The passenger's identity was not given in the report, but the officer said in the report that the passenger was detained. Scott family spokesman Ryan Julison confirmed to CNN that a man was with Scott and said he is not related to the family. The family declined to provide any more information. A timeline of events . The North Charleston Police Department is not providing additional information, citing an ongoing investigation of Scott's killing by the independent South Carolina Law Enforcement Division. Gann said when he arrived at the shooting scene, an officer identified only as Habersham "was administering first aid" to Scott. "I exited my vehicle and assisted Officer Habersham with first aid and CPR to the driver," Gann said in the report. "We continued to perform first aid and CPR until EMS arrived... When EMS and first responders arrived, EMS took care over providing care to the driver, who was pronounced deceased a short time later." Habersham, in his account, did not mention performing CPR. "I attempted to render aid to the victim by applying pressure to the gunshot wounds and (directing) the best route for EMS and fire to get to the victim faster," he said in the report. An officer identified as Sgt. Webb said that he requested an ambulance. Webb said that at 9:41 a.m. he saw Habersham "administering chest compression to the defendant." North Charleston Police Chief  Eddie Driggers was asked at a news conference this week whether CPR was performed on Scott. "I do not know. I was told that life-saving ... that they tried to save his life," Driggers said. North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey added that not every North Charleston police officer is CPR certified. What we know about Officer Slager .
(CNN)Kanye West has settled a lawsuit with a paparazzi photographer he assaulted -- and the two have shaken on it. The photographer, Daniel Ramos, had filed the civil suit against West  after the hip-hop star attacked him and tried to wrestle his camera from him in July 2013 at Los Angeles International Airport. West pleaded no contest last year to a misdemeanor count of battery over the scuffle. A judge sentenced him to two years' probation, as well as anger management sessions and community service. Ramos and his lawyer, Gloria Allred, sought general and punitive damages in the civil suit, saying that West had interfered with the photographer's rights to pursue a lawful occupation. The case had been set for trial next week, but Allred issued a statement Tuesday night saying Ramos' side had filed a dismissal "because the case was settled to the satisfaction of the parties." She didn't disclose the details of the settlement other than saying that "one important aspect of it was an apology by Kanye West to our client, Daniel Ramos." Her statement included a picture of West and Ramos shaking hands, which she said happened after the apology. The original incident was caught on video, including the following exchange. "Kanye! Kanye! Talk to me, Kanye!" Ramos shouts outside a terminal at the Los Angeles airport on the night of July 19, 2013. "What's' going on? Why can't we talk to you?  I mean, why?" he asks as West moves through a group of paparazzi. "Now come on, Kanye, I don't want to fight with you," he says as West advances toward him. "I told you, don't talk to me, right," West says. "You're trying to get me in trouble so I step off and have to pay you like $250,000." West is then seen rushing the photographer and attempting to wrestle his camera from his hands. West retreats after about 15 seconds of scuffling with the photographer. "We believe that this case sent an important message," Allred said. "Celebrities are not above the law, and they have no right to physically attack someone simply because they were asked a question." Beverly Hills Police investigated an incident in January 2014 in which West was accused of assaulting a man at a Beverly Hills chiropractor's office. West avoided criminal charges by reaching a civil settlement with the man. Kanye West apologizes to Beck, Bruno Mars . CNN's Sonya Hamasaki contributed to this report.
(CNN)"A long, long, time ago..." Those five words, when uttered or sung, makes baby boomers immediately think of Don McLean's pop masterpiece "American Pie."  It's hard to believe that his phenomenal 8½ minute allegory, which millions of Americans know by heart, is 44 years old.  All sorts of historical cross-currents play off each other in this timeless song, brilliantly gilded with the unforgettable chorus, which starts as "Bye, Bye, Miss American Pie." There is no real way to categorize McLean's "American Pie" for its hybrid of modern poetry and folk ballad, beer-hall chant and high-art rock. On Tuesday, Christie's sold the 16-page handwritten manuscript of the song's lyrics for $1.2 million to an unnamed buyer. McLean was a paperboy when, on February 3, 1959, he saw that Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and J.P. "The Big Bopper" Richardson had been tragically killed in an airplane crash in Clear Lake, Iowa. "The next day I went to school in shock and guess what?" McLean recalled.  "Nobody cared.  Rock 'n' roll in those days was sort of like hula hoops and Buddy hadn't had a big hit on the charts since '57."  By cathartically writing "American Pie," McLean has guaranteed that the memory of those great musicians lives forever. Having recorded his first album, "Tapestry," in 1969, in Berkeley, California, during the student riots, McLean, a native New Yorker, became a kind of weather vane for what he called the "generation lost in space."   When his cultural anthem "American Pie" was released in November 1971, it replaced Bob Dylan's "The Times They Are A Changin" as the Peoples Almanac of the new decade.  It's important to think of "American Pie" as one would of Henry Longfellow's "Evangeline" or Johnny Mercer's "Moon River" -- an essential Americana poem emanating wistful recollection, blues valentine, and youthful protest rolled into one.  There is magic brewing in the music and words of "American Pie," for McLean's lyrics and melody frame a cosmic dream, like those Jack Kerouac tried to conjure in his poetry-infused novel "On the Road." Don McLean: Buddy Holly, rest in peace . Influenced by Pete Seeger and the Weavers, McLean proudly wore the mantle of troubadour in the early 1970s, when "American Pie" topped the Billboard charts, and has never shed the cape.   Wandering far and wide, singing "American Pie" at windblown dance halls in Wyoming and cloistered colleges in New England, at huge amphitheaters in California and little coffee houses in the Hudson River Valley, McLean has performed his global anthem thousands of times.  Yet the encore number never loses its transfixing allure. When McLean prods audiences by rhapsodizing "and they were singing" everybody spontaneously joins in with the "Bye, Bye" chorus.  Watching McLean deliver his most notable song in concert is to take part in a collective Happening. What makes "American Pie" so unusual is that it isn't a relic from the counterculture but a talisman, which, like a sacred river, keeps bringing joy to listeners everywhere.  When "American Pie" suddenly is played on a jukebox or radio it's almost impossible not to sing along.   Like "Danny Boy" or "Streets of Laredo" or "Shenandoah," it's eternal.  With illusions to football fields and rock 'n' roll, river levees and nursery rhymes, the song cascades along like a boat going down Niagara Falls or a roller coaster that jumps tracks but floats instead of crashes. After all these years, "American Pie" still makes me feel empowered and yet filled with a sense of loss.  The song is alive and joyful, yet fretful about a world gone wrong.  It is a song that will never die.  A reverie for the ages.   There is a jump to the chorus, which forces the mind to relive the '50s, '60s and '70s, to troll through the back pages of our lives while, like a traditional Irish folksong, it reminds us of fate. While McLean, the muse, has rightfully not tried to interpret "American Pie," it's fair to surmise that "the king" is Elvis Presley, "Helter Skelter" refers to the Charles Manson murders, the "jester on the sidelines in a cast" is Bob Dylan, and "Jack Flash" the Rolling Stones.  But who knows?  The lyric remains a puzzle open to thousands of spirited interpretations.  As a literary artifact of the early 1970s, there isn't anything to compare to "American Pie." Normally, I don't like rankings of literature or songs or even presidents, for that matter.  But the fact that the Recording Industry of America and the National Endowment of the Arts chose "American Pie" as the fifth greatest song of the 20th century speaks to the composition's importance as an enduring piece of pop art.  The other four were "Over the Rainbow" (by Harold Arlen and E.Y "Yip" Harburg), "White Christmas "(by Irving Berlin), "This Land is Your Land" (by Woody Guthrie) and "Respect" (by Otis Redding).  That is fine company. Quite simply, "American Pie" is one of the greatest songs ever written.  And Tuesday the original lyrics found a new home.
(CNN)Their relationship led to jail time for her, but Mary Kay Letourneau Fualaau wants the world to know that she and her husband, Vili Fualaau, are still happily together. She was a married 34-year-old teacher and mother of four in Seattle in 1996 when she began an affair with Fualaau, her 13-year-old student. Letourneau gave birth to her young lover's child and went on to serve more than seven years in prison on charges related to their sexual relationship. On Friday, ABC's "20/20" will air an exclusive interview with the couple, who will celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary on May 20. The pair wed soon after she was released from prison in 2005 and are now the parents of two teen girls. According to ABC, during the interview with Barbara Walters, "Mary Kay tells Walters what makes their marriage work in spite of their huge difference in their age." "She also discusses her surprising plans to teach again, as well as her intentions to have her status as a registered sex offender lifted," a posting on the network's site says. "Vili Fualaau, meanwhile, discusses his bouts with alcoholism, depression and why he believes the system failed him while he was still a minor." Letourneau Fualaau is now 53, and her husband is 31.
(CNN)That's some rich "American Pie." The lyrics to the famed Don McLean song sold for $1.2 million Tuesday morning at an auction held by Christie's. "Don McLean's manuscript of 'American Pie' achieved the 3rd highest auction price for an American literary manuscript, a fitting tribute to one the foremost singer-songwriters of his generation," Christie's Tom Lecky said in a statement. McLean told Rolling Stone that it was time to part with the manuscript. "I'm going to be 70 this year," the singer and songwriter said in February. "I have two children and a wife, and none of them seem to have the mercantile instinct. I want to get the best deal that I can for them. It's time." Over the years, "American Pie" has become one of the most dissected and argued-about songs in the pop music canon. McLean has said that the opening lines were inspired by the death of Buddy Holly, but after that, it's all been conjecture -- which hasn't stopped a marching band's worth of analysts from trying to parse the symbols in the 8-minute, 33-second opus. Is the jester Bob Dylan? The football game Vietnam? The "girl who sang the blues" Janis Joplin? (One thing's certain: Buddy Holly's plane was NOT named "American Pie.") "Over the years I've dealt with all these stupid questions of 'Who's that?' and 'Who's that?' " McLean said. "These are things I never had in my head for a second when I wrote the song. I was trying to capture something very ephemeral and I did, but it took a long time." The song catapulted the former folk singer to headliner status. The song hit No. 1 in early 1972, despite its length. (The 45-rpm single split the song in half on its A and B sides.) The draft that was auctioned is 16 pages: 237 lines of manuscript and 26 lines of typed text, according to Christie's. It includes lines that didn't make the final version as well as extensive notes -- all of which should be revealing, McLean said. The record for a popular music manuscript is held by Bob Dylan's "Like a Rolling Stone," which sold for $2 million in June. Opinion: What's so great about 'American Pie'?
(CNN)You may know Mindy Kaling from Fox's cult hit comedy "The Mindy Project," in which she plays Mindy Lahiri, a perky, quirky OB/GYN juggling her career and love life in New York. (Only in the Big Apple can a doctor not afford an apartment!) The show was a breakthrough for on-screen representation — the first network sitcom created by and starring a woman of color — and it looks likely to be renewed for the coming 2015-16 season. Recently, however, Kaling's brother Vijay Chokalingam unveiled a project of his own, and while it has been getting a lot of attention, it hasn't generated quite as many laughs — either from observers or from his famous sibling, who told him it brought "shame upon their family." You see, Chokalingam revealed that, as an undergraduate at the University of Chicago, he engaged in a daring (his view) or ridiculous and offensive (pretty much everyone else) scam: He applied to medical school claiming to be African-American. Chokalingam had spent his college years as a "hard-partying frat boy," and achieved a less than stunning 3.1 GPA. Upon facing graduation and exploring his med school options, he realized that fellow Indian-Americans with his grades were getting turned down from the universities of his choice — but that "black, Hispanic, and Native American applicants with my grades and test scores were much more likely to gain acceptance." This revelation led him to make the decision to pose as a black man, both to "dramatically improve" his chances of admission, and to illustrate the unfair advantage that blacks and other underrepresented minorities receive when applying to prestigious schools. To accomplish this goal, Chokalingam shaved his head of its naturally wavy black locks, trimmed his "long Indian-American eyelashes," checked "black" under the optional race/ethnicity declaration and submitted his application to 14 schools under his childhood nickname "JoJo." He received invitations for in-person interviews at 11 schools, results that he claims support the notion that African-Americans garner special privileges that are unavailable to whites or Asians. And now that the statute of limitations on his act of fraud has expired, he's looking to write a book on his experiences, titled "Almost Black: The True Story of an Indian American Who Got Into Medical School Pretending to Be an African American." What's truly curious is that even if you agree with Chokalingam that affirmative action is merely a form of "systematic racism," when all is said and done, it offers very little evidence of the "privilege" that he claims is accorded to black, Hispanic and Native American candidates. Chokalingam had mediocre grades and MCATs, but he graduated from one of the most prestigious schools in the nation. Yet even while representing himself as black, Chokalingam received only a single admission offer, to St. Louis University's School of Medicine, which falls somewhere between 57th and 67th in national rankings. Harvard, University of Pennsylvania, Columbia and all the higher ranked schools he applied to rejected him. Meanwhile, he admits, pretending to be black came with disadvantages. He found himself being accused of shoplifting by store clerks and harassed by cops — who would regularly stop him while driving and demand that he tell them how much his car cost, implying that he must have stolen it. These acts of very real prejudice, experienced regularly by blacks and Hispanics of all backgrounds — multimillionaire comedian Chris Rock has recently been tweeting pictures of the occasions when he is pulled over by police for no reason — didn't seem to dissuade Chokalingam from his adamant belief in the unfairness of a system that seeks to address the shockingly low numbers of minority health practitioners by providing some weight to race and ethnicity in decision-making. It's not just a matter of what individual applicants "deserve." One-third of Americans are black, Hispanic or Native American; just one in 10 physicians are. Since minority medical practitioners are up to three times as likely to practice in their own communities, this lack of diversity has produced "doctor deserts," in which urban and rural ethnic enclaves across the nation go without access to primary care physicians. Years ago, when I told my father — a doctor from a long line of doctors — that I didn't want to follow in his footsteps, he told me that was fine, because medicine is a service trade, and anyone not interested in serving should avoid the profession. A medical degree isn't a reward to be earned, he said, but a responsibility to be accepted. Which really cuts to the heart of what's so sad about Chokalingam's racial farce. Like others who've recently been exposed for falsely claiming racial identities — including putative presidential candidate Jeb Bush, who registered himself as "Hispanic" on a 2009 voter form, and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who was excoriated during her campaign for having claimed Native American ancestry in the past — Chokalingam wanted to claim the fruits of racial affiliation without having to carry black people's burden. Race isn't just about color or blood; it is about the collective experiences and inherited cultural context and present-day condition of a community of people. Many of the markers of race are persistently corrosive; others are deeply painful. Affirmative action programs are a means of redress for these awful realities of our nation's history; an imperfect one, but necessary. There are some fields where the imbalances might never correct themselves on their own. Industries like health care and Hollywood. Because what's most ironic about Chokalingam's decision to ride on his sister's coattails in telling his story: While Asians are well represented in medicine, our numbers are vanishingly low in the entertainment and media world, and until the recent breakthrough of modern pioneers like Mindy Kaling, it was impossible to imagine film and television that included our faces, voices and stories. Kaling's immense talent and charisma made her a star. But it was a quota-based affirmative action initiative -- NBC's Diversity Writers Program -- that gave her a start.
(CNN)Buzz has surrounded HBO's new documentary "Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief," but Scientologist John Travolta is not a fan. Travolta told the Tampa Bay Times that he has not seen the documentary, "and I don't really care to." "I've been so happy with my (Scientology) experience in the last 40 years that I really don't have anything to say that would shed light on (a documentary) so decidedly negative," Travolta said. The actor, one of the Church of Scientology's most high-profile members along with stars like Tom Cruise and Kirstie Alley, is premiering his new film, "The Forger," in Clearwater, Florida. The HBO documentary is based on the book "Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, and the Prison of Belief" by Lawrence Wright and is critical of the organization, which has close ties to the showbiz industry. Travolta said he believed the doc was a result of "people who were disgruntled with their experiences" with the Church of Scientology, which he touted as a positive experience for him. "I haven't experienced anything that the hearsay has (claimed), so why would I communicate something that wasn't true for me?" Travolta asked. "It wouldn't make sense, nor would it for Tom (Cruise), I imagine." He called Scientology "brilliant" and credited the church with helping him to survive the death of his teen son, Jett, after a seizure while the family was on vacation in the Bahamas in 2009. "Oh, my God, I wouldn't have made it," said Travolta, whose wife, Kelly Preston, is also a member. "Honestly."
