this is a story of two misfits who do n't stand a chance alone , but together they are magnificent .
schaeffer has to find some hook on which to hang his persistently useless movies , and it might as well be the resuscitation of the middle-aged character .
the primitive force of this film seems to bubble up from the vast collective memory of the combatants .
on this tricky topic , tadpole is very much a step in the right direction , with its blend of frankness , civility and compassion .
the script kicks in , and mr. hartley 's distended pace and foot-dragging rhythms follow .
you wonder why enough was n't just a music video rather than a full-length movie .
if you 're hard up for raunchy college humor , this is your ticket right here .
a fast , funny , highly enjoyable movie .
good old-fashioned slash-and-hack is back !
this one is definitely one to skip , even for horror movie fanatics .
for all its impressive craftsmanship , and despite an overbearing series of third-act crescendos , lily chou-chou never really builds up a head of emotional steam .
exquisitely nuanced in mood tics and dialogue , this chamber drama is superbly acted by the deeply appealing veteran bouquet and the chilling but quite human berling .
uses high comedy to evoke surprising poignance .
one of creepiest , scariest movies to come along in a long , long time , easily rivaling blair witch or the others .
a string of rehashed sight gags based in insipid vulgarity .
among the year 's most intriguing explorations of alientation .
the movie fails to live up to the sum of its parts .
the son 's room is a triumph of gentility that earns its moments of pathos .
there is nothing outstanding about this film , but it is good enough and will likely be appreciated most by sailors and folks who know their way around a submarine .
this is a train wreck of an action film -- a stupefying attempt by the filmmakers to force-feed james bond into the mindless xxx mold and throw 40 years of cinematic history down the toilet in favor of bright flashes and loud bangs .
