Hong Kong (CNN)Six people were hurt after an explosion at a controversial chemical plant in China's southeastern Fujian province sparked a huge fire, provincial authorities told state media. The plant, located in Zhangzhou city, produces paraxylene (PX), a reportedly carcinogenic chemical used in the production of polyester films and fabrics. The blast occurred at an oil storage facility Monday night after an oil leak, though local media has not reported any toxic chemical spill. Five out of six people were injured by broken glass and have been sent to the hospital for treatment, Xinhua news agency reported. More than 600 firefighters were sent to battle the blaze and the fire is now under control, the Zhangzhou fire department wrote on their official microblogging account Tuesday morning. Residents living close to the plant had heard the explosion and took to Weibo to post photos of the fire. One user wrote that he heard a loud blast and felt slight tremors. The plant was hit by another explosion in July 2013, although there were no reports of casualties or toxic leaks at the time. Though demonstrations are illegal in China, the construction of PX plants has sparked protests, which have occasionally turned violent, in several cities in recent years. The Zhangzhou plant was slated for Xiamen -- a densely populated city in the southeast of the country. However, it provoked an angry backlash in 2007 due to pollution concerns and prompted the local government to relocate the factory to its current, more remote location.
(CNN)The United States Department of Justice has named a new defendant in the war on drugs, and the charges are serious indeed. A 15-count indictment filed in federal court in California bristles with accusations of conspiracies, transporting prescription pharmaceuticals dispensed with illegal prescriptions, violations of the Controlled Substances Act, misbranding charges, and money laundering charges. Who is this menace to society? FedEx. Yes, the courier delivery service. Wait, can companies even be charged with crimes?  Where would a FedEx be incarcerated?  Is there a corporate Shawshank Prison?  How does one fit a company for a prison jumpsuit? It turns out a corporation can indeed be prosecuted like a person. It's a practice the Supreme Court has approved of for over a century. In fact, in many ways they are easier to prosecute than people.  Corporations don't have all the same inconvenient constitutional rights as citizens accused of crimes. Imprisoning convicted citizens is expensive, but corporate convictions, on the other hand, turn tidy profits for the U.S. government, with zero prison overhead. Even if corporations can be held criminally liable, should a courier service like FedEx be held liable for "possessing" what bad guys may send through the service? The answer, according to FedEx, is not just "No," but a "No" so conclusive that this case should never see a courtroom. The company maintains that it is innocent. It has a point. "Possession" is an elusive concept.  When it comes to drugs, the law recognizes two kinds of possession: actual and constructive. Actual possession is when you have physical control over the contraband. When you have a gun in your hand or drugs in your pocket, you "actually" possess those things. The somewhat hazier concept of "constructive possession" means you can "possess" something without even having it on your person, as long as you have ownership, dominion or control over the contraband or the property where it is found. For example, the government would argue that while you may not have actual possession of the 5,000 OxyContin pills in the trunk of your car parked in your driveway, you "constructively" possessed them. Conversely, sometimes you can be holding something in your hand or have it in your vehicle, but not "possess" it either actually or constructively, in the eyes of the law. Such is the case with couriers who routinely drive to your home, walk up to your door and hand you a package, completely ignorant about what is inside it. It's hard to argue the UPS guy intentionally "possessed" your subscription to porno mags, in their nondescript brown packaging. That is the idea behind the "common carrier" exception to possession, and a large part of FedEx's compelling legal argument. A "common carrier" is one who offers its services to members of the public -- without much discretion -- and is engaged in the business of transporting persons or property for compensation. The public policy reasons behind "common carrier" exemptions make sense; the industry simply couldn't function if every driver, courier and handler who touches a valid shipment of OxyContin had to obtain a prescription for opiates to be legally allowed to deliver it to your front door. That would lead to an absurd result. That's why the Controlled Substances Act and the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act allow common carriers to lawfully possess controlled substances, so long as it is in the usual course of their business. Of course, this is not a permission slip for drug runners to avoid liability by calling themselves "common carriers." That's why the "usual course of business" language acts as an additional safety measure. In court papers, FedEx's lawyers offer the example of an airline whose sole activity was flying controlled substances from Jamaica to Miami. This would not be acting in the usual course of business of a common carrier, since this imaginary airline is not offering its services to the public, generally. On the other hand, FedEx argues that it is indeed a common carrier, performing the normal duties of a common carrier, because (a) it is engaged in the business of transportation of property and (b) it offers its services to the public generally. It's hard to imagine extending liability to common carriers for possession of contraband. Does this mean a Greyhound bus driver becomes liable for marijuana possessed by a passenger? The bus driver would argue he has no reason to know if a particular passenger is carrying drugs. But if the guy boards the bus with a Grateful Dead T-shirt and a set of bongos, shouldn't the driver at least have a hunch? That seems dangerously close to profiling. Is this another illogical straw man argument? Maybe. Obviously, the Department of Justice disagrees, which is why it has brought this criminal prosecution. According to the indictment, from at least as early as 2004, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Food and Drug Administration, and members of Congress put FedEx on notice that illegal Internet pharmacies were using its shipping services to distribute controlled substances and prescription drugs in violation of the Controlled Substances Act, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and numerous state laws. The indictment alleges that as early as 2004, FedEx knew that it was delivering drugs to dealers and addicts. FedEx's couriers in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia expressed safety concerns that were circulated to FedEx senior management. The DOJ is making the argument that even though FedEx carries and delivers whatever is handed to it by the public, FedEx knew or should have known in specific instances that it was involving itself in suspicious drug activity. It raises a larger question, though: Why do we prosecute inanimate objects that we can't even incarcerate? The answer is the same reason that the drug dealers deal drugs, and drug smugglers smuggle them: Money. Power. The government in these cases gets to impose its will and policy upon large corporations -- in this case, it would be to force FedEx to help law enforcement in policing shady pharmaceutical transportation. The government also gets to extract gargantuan sums of money from corporations in "deferred prosecution agreements." The reason you don't see a lot of corporate trials is because most companies prefer to enter into such agreements; for a company, a public prosecution alone would be tantamount to a death sentence, whether or not it's found guilty. Still, every defense attorney would love to offer the option to his or her human clients of avoiding felony conviction and a potential life sentence -- by agreeing to pay some fines. Don't get me wrong: I'm all about prosecuting the black market, especially if that means prosecuting the guys who send us those spam emails to our work accounts with "V1AGRA" in the subject line, for our co-workers to see while we go to the bathroom. I want those guys locked up for sure. I'm just not sure that FedEx has anything to do with the kingpins of the "FR33 CYALIS" email campaign. The DOJ's underlying intentions are noble enough -- this is an attack on the supply line of the illegal drug market by attacking the actual supply chain. It makes good strategic sense. It might seem like good financial sense in the short run, with the millions in fines extracted from corporations, but that money has to come from somewhere. It's just a matter of time before that trickles down to job cuts and less leg room on our flights. It probably doesn't make good legal sense either. Yes, we have been treating corporations as fictional "persons" for centuries in some ways -- but it's silly to treat them as persons in all ways. FedEx has a strong argument for dismissal in this case, but even if not, it won't be swapping its logo orange for prison orange anytime soon.
(CNN)Boston native Mark Wahlberg will star in a film about the Boston Marathon bombing and the manhunt that followed, Deadline reported Wednesday. Wahlberg's film, to be titled "Patriots' Day," is being produced by CBS Films, which linked to the Deadline article from its website. According to Deadline, Wahlberg is hoping to play Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis, who retired after the attack in 2013. The film will be told from Davis' point of view. The film will feature material researched and shot by CBS Films' corporate sibling, the CBS News program "60 Minutes." Wahlberg is also a producer of the film. "Patriots' Day" is the second film related to the Boston bombing to be announced. Fox announced in November that it will be making a film called "Boston Strong" about the event.
(CNN)What do we have for the contestant on "The Price Is Right"? A brand-new car! Whoops. That wasn't supposed to happen. On Thursday's edition of the popular game show, model Manuela Arbelaez accidentally revealed the correct answer to a guessing game for a new Hyundai Sonata. Host Drew Carey couldn't stop laughing. "Congratulations! Manuela just gave you a car!" he exulted. Arbelaez was mortified, attempting to hide behind the display. But everything turned out OK, she tweeted later. It's been a busy week for "The Price Is Right." On Wednesday, former host Bob Barker, 91, showed up to run his old show.
(CNN)Authorities identified and charged a man Monday in connection with the discovery of human remains in a duffel bag in Cambridge, Massachusetts, over the weekend. Carlos Colina, 32, was arraigned on charges of assault and battery causing serious bodily injury and improper disposal of a body, the Middlesex District Attorney's Office said in a statement. "This was a gruesome discovery," said District Attorney Marian Ryan. "Detectives are continuing to analyze evidence and awaiting information from the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner so that we may determine if additional charges are warranted." Police were notified Saturday morning about a suspicious item along a walkway in Cambridge. Officers arrived at the scene, opened a duffel bag and found human remains. After that discovery, police say, a surveillance video led them to an apartment building, where more body parts were discovered in a common area. That location is near the Cambridge Police Department headquarters. The remains at both locations belonged to the same victim, identified Monday as Jonathan Camilien, 26. Camilien and Colina knew each other, according to authorities. The next scheduled hearing in the case is set for April 14. CNN's Andreas Preuss contributed to this report.
(CNN)For those wondering if we would ever hear from the Bluth family again, the answer would appear to be yes. "Arrested Development" executive producer Brian Grazer said the show will return for a fifth season of 17 episodes. The Hollywood mogul was interviewed on Bill Simmons' podcast recently, and let it drop that fans can expect more of the quirky comedy. Netflix had no comment for CNN when asked to verify his statements. The fourth season was streamed exclusively on Netflix in 2013, after Fox canceled the show several years before. Despite critical acclaim, the series never had big ratings, but has a devoted fan base, who often quote from the show. It was not yet known if the full cast, including Jason Bateman, Michael Cera and Will Arnett, will return for the season.
(CNN)This is the end. Beautiful friend, the end. For the 1960s, the end arrived with -- depending on your ideals and your tribe -- either the Rolling Stones' Altamont fiasco in December 1969, the Kent State shootings in May 1970 or Richard Nixon's 1972 re-election. For "Mad Men," the "end of an era," as its slogan has it, begins Sunday. Over the past eight years, the show about a 1960s advertising agency and its collision with changing times has become part of the national fabric, if never a huge ratings hit. Stores have created fashion lines inspired by the show; there have been "Mad Men" cocktails and "Mad Men" museum exhibits and even "Mad Men" presidential references. Don Draper, the creative director played by Jon Hamm, has become a symbol of the times -- his and, sometimes, ours. Its subjects have taken the show to heart. In March, a "Mad Men" bench was unveiled in front of New York's Time & Life Building, where the fictional firm of Sterling Cooper & Partners has its headquarters. The end of a TV series brings with it some risk. "The Sopranos," "Mad Men" creator Matthew Weiner's former employer, divided fans with its famous cut-to-black finale. On the other hand, "Mad Men's" former AMC stablemate, "Breaking Bad," was saluted for an almost perfect landing. Speaking of landings: The last season -- technically, the first half of season 7 -- ended with the moon landing in July 1969. Though Weiner and his cast have been typically tight-lipped -- Weiner even hid the finale from his cast at first -- it's reasonable to assume the new season will pick up soon afterward. What's going to happen? Here are some educated guesses. With the '60s screaming towards their conclusion, "Mad Men" probably won't jump ahead much. The latter half of 1969 included the Manson murders, the Woodstock festival, a New York mayoral campaign and the Vietnam War moratorium demonstrations -- plenty of fodder for the characters to interact with, if only tangentially. Who knows? The show might even mention the Miracle Mets. It would be a nice way to acknowledge the agency's late Lane Pryce. Of course, Weiner might have a different idea; he's from Baltimore. "Mad Men" is generally a show about disintegration, reflective of the '60s themselves. The old orders are falling apart: white-shoe WASP firms like Sterling Cooper giving way to the ethnic pace-setters such as Doyle Dane Bernbach; grimy New York replaced by sunny Los Angeles; the "Good War" generation butting heads with the "Make Love, Not War" cohort; vacuum tubes and ledger books being displaced by a sleek, solid-state IBM world. It's all an ad agency can do to keep up. Last season saw plenty of intraoffice turmoil, thanks to the ill-fitting merger between Sterling Cooper and former rival Cutler Gleason and Chaough. Though the agency survived, it's now without Bert Cooper (Robert Morse) and under the ownership of (real-life) Madison Avenue titan McCann Erickson. That's not a recipe for long-term survival, and expect a number of longtime characters -- Ken Cosgrove (Aaron Staton), Harry Crane (Rich Sommer) and perhaps even Joan Harris (Christina Hendricks) -- to look for an exit. Roger Sterling -- the wisecracking executive played by John Slattery -- might find an exit as well, but not one he's anticipating. He's suffered two heart attacks. He drinks to excess. He's never grown up. Bet on a sudden and shocking departure. On the other hand, Peggy Olson's star has continued to rise (much like one of the character's models, advertising wunderkind Mary Wells Lawrence). She left Sterling Cooper once; indeed, she wouldn't have returned if her new agency hadn't merged with her old one. If Olson, played by Elisabeth Moss, bolts the firm, it will probably be to head her own agency -- and possibly get married. That is, if she's still interested in such an old-fashioned tradition. In recent seasons, Don's ex-wife, Betty (January Jones), has lost herself amid all the turmoil. She sees herself through the eyes of her spouses, and though husband Henry Francis (Christopher Stanley) has been far more supportive than Don, he's a busy man. And Sally, Don's daughter (Kiernan Shipka), is proving to be a handful. On the one hand, she's obviously bright; on the other, she's a teenager and starting to rebel. In recent seasons she's run away and started sneaking cigarettes, and she's always fighting with her mother. You could see her hitchhiking to Woodstock, or at least dropping out of school. Anything's possible, but given all that the character has been through -- divorces, affairs, office politics, morose late-night rides with Glen Bishop -- it's a bit on the nose, isn't it? Instead, try this: It's April 1, 1970. Richard Nixon is signing legislation banning cigarette ads on radio and television, reminding Don of the day 10 years earlier when he came up with the Lucky Strike campaign that began the series. No fool, he had seen this day coming years before. He'll fix himself a drink, ponder buying an avocado-colored refrigerator, clean out his ashtray and leave the show the way he arrived: on top of the zeitgeist, unable to accept his past and utterly, inscrutably alone.
(CNN)Just kill it already. That was the sentiment of many "Vampire Diaries" fans on Tuesday after star Nina Dobrev announced she will be leaving the CW show at the end of this season. "I always knew I wanted Elena's story to be a six season adventure, and within those six years I got the journey of a lifetime," she posted on her social media accounts after a "goodbye party" at Lake Lanier outside Atlanta, where the show is filmed. "I was a human, a vampire, a doppelganger, a crazy immortal, a doppelganger pretending to be human, a human pretending to be a doppelganger. I got kidnapped, killed, resurrected, tortured, cursed, body-snatched, was dead and undead, and there's still so much more to come before the season finale in May." And while that may be true, fans were feeling a little jilted. Many chastised the show's producers, some even Dobrev herself, for allowing the show to go on to a seventh season this fall after she departs. Many were upset that Dobrev's departure could sink hopes of seeing a satisfying denouement to the relationship between Dobrev's character, Elena Gilbert, and love interest vampire Damon Salvatore. Fans called the couple "Delena." "I feel angry, sad, depressed, numb but most of all I feel like part of me died along with Nina leaving TVD. Nothing will be the same again," Twitter user iDamonAndElena posted. Producer Julie Plec issued a statement supporting Dobrev's decision. "Nina is excited to spread her wings, get some rest, travel the world and also take it by storm, and we support her a thousand-fold," she said in the statement, according to media accounts. "We will miss Nina and the four hundred characters she played, but we look forward to the insane and exciting challenge of continuing to tell stories of our Salvatore Brothers and our much-loved and gifted ensemble." No thanks, some fans said. Dobrev seemed to anticipate the pain, urging fans to hold on through the show's finale next month. "If you think you know what's coming, you don't," she said.
New Delhi, India (CNN)Police have arrested four employees of a popular Indian ethnic-wear chain after a minister spotted a security camera overlooking the changing room of one of its stores. Federal education minister Smriti Irani was visiting a FabIndia outlet in the tourist resort state of Goa on Friday when she discovered a surveillance camera pointed at the changing room, police said. Four employees of the store have been arrested, but its manager -- herself a woman -- was still at large Saturday, said Goa police superintendent Kartik Kashyap. State authorities launched their investigation right after Irani levied her accusation. They found an overhead camera that the minister had spotted and determined that it was indeed able to take photos of customers using the store's changing room, according to Kashyap. After the incident, authorities sealed off the store and summoned six top officials from FabIndia, he said. The arrested staff have been charged with voyeurism and breach of privacy, according to the police. If convicted, they could spend up to three years in jail, Kashyap said. Officials from FabIndia -- which sells ethnic garments, fabrics and other products -- are heading to Goa to work with investigators, according to the company. "FabIndia is deeply concerned and shocked at this allegation," the company said in a statement. "We are in the process of investigating this internally and will be cooperating fully with the police."
(CNN)Nine British citizens were arrested in Turkey on Wednesday, suspected of trying to cross illegally into Syria, the Turkish military said on its website. The group included four children -- the oldest being 10 or 11, with the youngest born in 2013, a Turkish official told CNN on condition of anonymity. The nine were arrested at the Turkey-Syria border, the Turkish military said. It didn't say why the group allegedly was trying to get into Syria, which has been torn by a roughly four-year war between Syrian government forces and Islamist extremist groups and other rebels. Among the war's combatants is ISIS, which has taken over parts of Syria and Iraq for what it claims is its Islamic caliphate, and which is known to have been recruiting Westerners. Accompanying the children were three men and two women; all nine had British passports, the Turkish official said. UK police charge man with terror offenses after Turkey trip . The British Foreign Office said Wednesday that it is aware of reports of the arrests and that it is seeking information about the incident from Turkish authorities. CNN's Gul Tuysuz reported from Istanbul, and Elaine Ly reported from London. CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
(CNN)A nuclear submarine being repaired at a Russian shipyard has caught on fire, according to a law enforcement source speaking to Russia's state-run news agency ITAR-Tass. "The submarine is in a dry dock," Tass reports, citing the source, and there is no ammunition on board. "The rubber insulation between the submarine's light and pressure hull is on fire," Tass reported. Russia's RIA Novosti news agency says insulation caught on fire as welding work was being done on the submarine. Tass reported that the fire began on a sub in the Zvyozdochka shipyard in northwestern Russia. Zvyozdochka spokesman Yevgeny Gladyshev told the news agency that the sub had been undergoing repairs since November 2013. "Nuclear fuel from the sub's reactor has been unloaded," he reportedly said. "There are no armaments or chemically active, dangerous substances, fissionable materials on it," Gladyshev said to Tass. "The enterprise's personnel left the premises when the submarine caught fire, no one has been injured. The fire presents no threat to people and the shipyard."
(CNN)Kayahan, one of Turkey's best-loved singers and songwriters, died of cancer Friday at the age of 66. He had performed most recently in Istanbul on Valentine's Day. The performer, who was also an accomplished guitarist, was first diagnosed with cancer in 1990, the year he competed in the Eurovision Song Contest, and the year before he released the album that ignited his career. The cancer returned in 2005 and then again in 2014, Turkey's semiofficial Anadolu Agency reported. He died Friday in a hospital in Istanbul, five days after his 66th birthday. "We are in grief over losing Kayahan, who contributed to Turkish music with countless compositions and marked a generation with his songs," Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu tweeted. The singer, whose full name was Kayahan Acar, was born in Izmir province, in western Turkey on March 29, 1949. He grew up in Ankara, Turkey's capital, before moving to Istanbul. In 1990, he competed in the Eurovision Song Contest, finishing 17th. The following year he released an album titled "I Made a Vow," which catapulted him to prominence. Though he recorded nearly 20 albums, that one would remain his most popular. His final album was released in 2007. Other artists recorded his material throughout his career. Videos available online show a vibrant performer with a thick shock of dark hair as he accompanies himself on guitar and croons in a clear tenor. Kayahan was best known for his love songs. More recent videos show a  frailer performer, seated and without a guitar, but still clearly glorying in the joy of singing a song.
Beijing (CNN)China's state prosecutors on Friday formally charged the country's former security czar with accepting bribes, making him the highest-ranking Chinese Communist Party official ever to face corruption charges. Zhou Yongkang, 72, was also charged with abuse of power and leaking state secrets, the Supreme People's Procuratorate, the highest prosecution authority in China, said. As a member of the ruling Communist Party's Politburo Standing Committee -- China's top decision-making body -- Zhou was one of nine men who effectively ruled the country of more than 1.3 billion people. He retired in 2012. At the height of his power, Zhou controlled police forces, spy agencies, court systems as well as prosecution offices across China -- and wasn't shy in deploying his vast assets to crush dissent and unrest in the name of "preserving social stability." Now, prosecutors have accused Zhou of "taking advantage of his posts to seek benefits for others and illegally accepting huge amounts of money" during his long political career. His alleged actions have caused heavy losses to public assets and greatly harmed national interests, they added. Zhou was notified of his legal rights during the investigation and his lawyer's views were heard, according to a statement by the prosecutors. His case will be tried in Tianjin, a city near the Chinese capital, Beijing. The president of China's supreme court recently told reporters there would be "open" trials for accused former leaders like Zhou. However, the charge of leaking state secrets may allow authorities to shield certain legal proceedings from public view in Zhou's case. Zhou has not been seen in public since he attended an anniversary event at his alma mater in October 2013. He was expelled from the Communist Party and arrested last December. State media have painted an intricate web of officials, cronies and tycoons -- some with alleged mafia connections -- orbiting around Zhou before the crumbling of his power structure last summer. Zhou and his family members were said to have accumulated enormous wealth, in a blatant exchange between money and power. He was also found to have affairs with multiple women and allegedly traded power for sex, state-run Xinhua news agency reported last year. Analysts have viewed his shocking downfall as a watershed moment in the secretive world of Chinese politics, now ruled by President Xi Jinping. Xi has been spearheading a massive anti-corruption campaign,  targeting both "tigers" and "flies" --  high-ranking, and low-level, officials. Zhou is by far the biggest tiger caught in Xi's dragnet to date. "The important thing here is that Xi has proven he's powerful enough to break this taboo of never incriminating former Politburo Standing Committee members," longtime political analyst Willy Lam, a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said last year, when the government revealed its formal investigation into Zhou. Many observers also note Zhou's patronage of Bo Xilai, a former Communist leader sentenced to life in prison for corruption in 2013. Bo's spectacular downfall the year before -- complete with tales of murder, bribery and betrayal -- attracted global attention. State media have cited his subsequent conviction as a prime example of Xi's resolve to clean up the party. The former Chongqing Communist Party chief's supporters, however, have long called him a political victim --  the former high-flying politician was once considered Xi's main challenger for the top spot of Chinese leadership. Political watchers see similarities between the Bo and Zhou cases. "The people being investigated for corruption are on the losing side of factional struggles," said Lam, who has predicted a suspended death sentence for Zhou.
(CNN)"Sell all that you own and distribute the money to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; then come, follow me," Jesus tells the rich man in one of his best-known parables. It was a mantra he invoked repeatedly: the poor were blessed, and it was easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it was for the well-to-do to enter paradise.  Meanwhile, Jesus told his Twelve Apostles to leave their day jobs and follow him on an itinerant mission with few prospects of success and no visible means of support. So how did this wandering band of  first-century evangelists support themselves? Clearly, money was a concern, and not just as an impediment to salvation. In the New Testament, money gets 37 mentions, while "gold" gets 38 citations, "silver" merits 20, and "copper" four. "Coin" comes up eight times, and "purse" and "denarii" -- the Roman currency -- get half a dozen mentions each for a total of 119 currency referrals. Perhaps the most relevant reference is also one of the most charged passages in the New Testament: . As the Gospel of John tells it, six days before Passover, Jesus was in Bethany at the house of his friend Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. A woman named Mary takes a jar of costly perfumed oil and anoints the feet of the reclining Jesus. She dries his feet with her hair, an irresistible image for artists and dramatists. Judas Iscariot objected to the act. "Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and the money given to the poor?" Judas asks. Though 300 denarii was the annual wage of a laborer, Jesus told Judas to leave her alone, and foreshadowing his fate, said the anointing would be useful for his burial, and besides, "you always have the poor with you" -- but Jesus would not always be there. What that passage makes clear is that the Jesus community had a common purse because they needed money to survive. So how much? "I imagine the ministry functioned at a subsistence level," Rabbi Joshua Garroway, a professor of Early Christianity and the Second Commonwealth at Hebrew Union College in Los Angeles. Jesus and his disciples walked, wore what they had, slept outside or in stayed in friends' homes. They ate what they caught or what others shared. "I venture to guess that begging and hospitality will have sufficed to meet the basic needs of Jesus and the companions with whom he traveled," Garroway said. Garroway said that it was possible, even likely, that Jesus and his followers received donations from supporters, and possibly substantial ones from some of the rich people who were drawn to his ministry despite -- or perhaps because of -- his preaching on the perils of wealth. The Gospel of Luke gives us a glimpse of how Jesus' ministry functioned on a practical level: . "Soon afterwards he went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. The twelve were with him, as well as some women who had been cured of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,  and Joanna, the wife of Herod's steward Chuza, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them  out of their resources." So, according to Luke, women whom Jesus had healed in turn provided for him out of their "resources," with Mary Magdalene and Joanna capturing our attention -- one by virtue of her husband, and the other, by her stature in the story of Jesus. Joanna was an upper-class woman married to a man who was intelligent and capable enough to manage the complicated household of Herod Antipas, the son of Herod the Great, the violent and ambitious head of Judea. As part of this volatile but powerful household, Joanna would be uniquely positioned to help Jesus with her resources, being both wealthy and having palace connections. She attends to him during his life, and, the Gospels tell us, after his death, as one of the trio of women who go to his tomb and find it empty. With her on that morning is Mary Magdalene, also identified as -- among other things -- a financial supporter of Jesus. Mary likely came from the prosperous town of Magdala, on the Sea of Galilee. As home to a thriving fishing industry, as well as dye and textile works, Mary could well have come from an affluent family -- or have been a successful business woman herself. Mary Magdalene was free to travel the country with Jesus and his disciples, so was unlikely to have a husband and children waiting for her at home, and in "Finding Jesus" we examine the Gnostic gospel of Mary Magdalene and explore the argument that Jesus was, in fact, her husband. She may have simply been an independent woman with her own resources who found a compelling message, and messenger. Not only was Mary Magdalene one of Jesus' most devoted followers, who stuck with him all the way from Galilee to Jerusalem, from the ministry to the cross and the tomb, but also she provided for him from her own means, said Mark Goodacre, a professor of New Testament and Christian Origins at Duke University. When the Gospels speak of her "ministering" to Jesus, they are explaining that she was one of the key figures in Jesus' everyday mission, Goodacre continues. Along with other women like Joanna and Susanna, she was one of those who made his mission viable. Along with these women, men like Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, both men of stature and wealth, may have chipped in to help fund Jesus' ministry. The Gospels reveal that both these men were rich, and supported Jesus -- indeed, it was Joseph who removed Jesus from the cross on Good Friday, anointing his body with the help of Nicodemus, and placing him in the tomb that Joseph had reserved for himself. After the resurrection on that first Easter Sunday, the movement Jesus started grew exponentially, and the church's relationship to money grew more complicated as the needs became greater. Michael McKinley is co-author, with David Gibson, of "Finding Jesus: Faith. Fact. Forgery.: Six Holy Objects That Tell the Remarkable Story of the Gospels."
Kabul, Afghanistan (CNN)Three people were killed and five others were wounded Thursday afternoon when a group of armed assailants stormed into the attorney general's office in Balkh province, northern Afghanistan, according to a press release from the provincial governor's office. Although most staff members and civilians have been rescued, an exchange of fire between Afghan security forces and the assailants is ongoing, the statement says. Two police officers and a security guard of the provincial attorney general's office were among the dead. Afghan security forces are cautiously making advances in the fight in order to avoid civilian casualties, according to the press statement.
(CNN)When I was elected to the Kentucky State Senate in 1967, I became the first woman and the first person of color to serve in the body.  Five decades later, I find it almost unfathomable that a politician from my own state is attempting to launch his presidential campaign on a record that includes questioning landmark voting rights and civil rights legislation. But that is what Rand Paul, who today declared he's running for president of the United States, is doing. His campaign team told reporters last week that his campaign announcement message would be about "expanding the Republican Party" -- a message of inclusion. But those of us listening today who he is hoping to include, heard nothing more than hype. I'm not buying it. Since coming to the U.S. Senate, Paul has tried to sell himself as a different type of Republican.  He's tried to brand himself as the GOP's minority outreach candidate.  The problem for Paul, and the GOP at large, is that they don't back up their words with their policies. Yes, it's about time that Republicans started seriously considering the fact that black voters are an important piece of the electoral puzzle.  But they can't actually appeal to the community unless they have a real commitment to the issues facing minority communities.  A quick survey of Sen. Paul's positions makes clear that he does not. Paul kicked off his announcement speech in Louisville by declaring "I have a message that is loud and clear:  We have come to take our country back."  I have no doubt that under Paul's leadership, he would indeed take our country back -- in the wrong direction -- way back to a time when we were debating the Civil Rights Act --  which Paul has done since landing on the national stage; when there was no Department of Education -- a department he thinks "should be done away with;" when women didn't have choices -- choices Paul seeks to limit in Washington; when DREAMers weren't protected from deportation -- protections Paul currently opposes. In his inept speaking engagements at historically black colleges and universities, he has come across as condescending and lacking basic cultural competency. But Paul has also questioned the Civil Rights Act, and even claimed that private business owners have a right to discriminate. When asked about the need for a more robust Voting Rights Act following the Supreme Court's dismantling of the law, Paul dismissively remarked, "We have an African-American President." When President Obama stood with John Lewis and other veterans of the civil rights movement in front of the Edmund Pettus Bridge last month to mark the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday, he inspired us all by saying: "With effort, we can roll back poverty and the roadblocks to opportunity. ... With effort, we can protect the foundation stone of our democracy for which so many marched across this bridge -- and that is the right to vote." America is better -- and we solve more problems -- with more democracy, not less.  Unfortunately Rand Paul has demonstrated that he disagree with that basic principle.  Paul tried once again from that stage in Louisville to fashion himself as the one member of his party courageous enough to try to broaden Republican appeal to constituencies they ignore year after year. But his record makes it very clear that his views are outdated, outside of the mainstream, and disqualifying for a man who wants to lead our country. The American people deserve a leader who won't disrespect their intelligence, who won't pander to them when it's convenient, and who won't work to dismantle the progress we have made over the last five decades. What I heard today, didn't change the facts about Rand Paul's record.  The American people deserve better than Rand Paul.
(CNN)A French-language global television network regained control of one of its 11 channels Thursday after a cyberattack a day earlier crippled its broadcasts and social media accounts. Television network TV5Monde was gradually regaining control of its channels and social media outlets after suffering what the network's director called an "extremely powerful cyberattack." In addition to its 11 channels, TV5Monde lost control of its social media outlets and its websites, director Yves Bigot said in a video message posted later on Facebook. On a mobile site, which was still active, the network said it was "hacked by an Islamist group." ISIS logos and markings appeared on  TV5Monde social media accounts. But there was no immediate claim of responsibility by ISIS or any other group. As day broke Thursday in Europe, the network had regained the use of one of its 11 channels and its Facebook page, Paul Germain, the chain's editor in chief, told BFMTV, a CNN affiliate in France. However, by late morning, a number of pages on the network's website had messages saying they were under maintenance. The outage began around 8:45 p.m. Paris time (2:45 p.m. ET) on Wednesday. TV5Monde offers round-the-clock entertainment and news programming that reaches 260 million homes worldwide, according to the Ministry of Culture and Communications. It functions under a partnership among the governments of France, Canada and Switzerland, as well as the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Other networks that provide content to TV5Monde include CNN affiliates France 2 and France 3, France 24 and Radio France International.
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (CNN)Lost luggage after a long flight is a common, frustrating occurrence of modern air travel. And sometimes, airlines lose things that are irreplaceable. American Jennifer Stewart says she was devastated to learn that Etihad Airways lost her most important baggage following a recent trip from Abu Dhabi to New York City: her 2-year-old pet cat, Felix. Stewart said that she and her husband, Joseph Naaman, booked Felix on their Etihad Airways flight from the United Arab Emirates to New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport on April 1. Shortly after the plane arrived in New York that evening, Felix went missing somewhere on the grounds of Kennedy Airport, according to Etihad Airways. Felix was able to get loose, Stewart said she believes, because the cat's plastic carrier was badly damaged at some point either during the flight or the transfer from the airplane to the pickup area. Stewart said a cargo manager called the couple to an office after they landed at Kennedy last week and notified them that their cat's carrier had been crushed. Photographs taken by Stewart showed a large hole in the top of the cat's carrier. At least one of the corners of the case appeared partially collapsed. Nearly one week later, Felix remains missing. "For them to take a cat and ship him like he was cargo, not a live animal, makes me sick," Stewart said.  "You trust that people care and are doing the job well, and then this happens." A representative for Etihad Airways told CNN that that the loss of pets during air travel is "extremely rare."  The airline shipped more than 200 pets last year. Etihad Airways is investigating the incident and is working with ground handlers at the New York airport to help locate the missing cat. The Abu Dhabi-based carrier also said it hired "third-party specialists" to help in the hunt for Felix. "We deeply regret this unfortunate incident and are keeping the owner apprised of the progress of the search," Etihad Airways told CNN in a statement. "We will review our pet handling procedures in the wake of this incident, as the safety and care of pets traveling with Etihad Airways is a top priority." Stewart and her husband booked the cat's flight as part of their job relocation to the United States after living in Abu Dhabi for more than three years. The couple said they spent $1,200 to ship Felix on the 14-hour flight. "You pay all of this money, but for what? People assume you pay extra to have your pets taken care of, but they're treated no differently than a free piece of checked luggage," Stewart said. It isn't the first time a pet has gone missing at New York's busiest airport. In August 2011, a cat escaped from its carrier before an American Airlines flight from New York to San Francisco. That cat was eventually discovered -- alive -- two months later in a customs room at the airport. But the cat later had to be euthanized because of injuries and malnutrition it suffered while lost. This weekend, Stewart enlisted the help of a local nonprofit, which provided a highly trained detection dog, to help track down Felix's scent. A wildlife biologist who works with the airport has also placed traps to facilitate Felix's safe return, according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Officials at Kennedy have offered to assist Etihad Airways as the airline investigates what happened, the Port Authority said. Stewart said the couple will continue to search the airport until they have answers. "We just want to find Felix. But I just don't know if we will," she said.
(CNN)The nation's top stories will be unfolding Tuesday in courthouses and political arenas across the country. Massachusetts is hosting two of the highest-profile court trials in recent memory -- those of former New England Patriot Aaron Hernandez and Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Both lengthy trials are coming to a close. In Louisville, Kentucky, Sen. Rand Paul made the not-so-surprising announcement that he will run for president, while in Chicago, voters will head to the polls in a very surprising runoff between Mayor Rahm Emanuel and challenger Jesus "Chuy" Garcia. And in Ferguson, Missouri, the shadow of Michael Brown and the protests over his shooting by Officer Darren Wilson will loom large over the city's elections. Here's a breakdown of what to expect today and how we got here: . Tsarnaev, who's accused of detonating a bomb at the 2013 Boston Marathon along with his now-deceased brother, faces the stiffest of penalties -- life in prison or the death penalty -- if he's found guilty on any of 17 capital counts against him, including setting off weapons of mass destruction at a public event as an act of terrorism. The 13th juror: What defense? On Monday, survivors and victims' families wept and Tsarnaev fidgeted at a defense table as jurors heard a prosecutor allege that the 21-year-old "brought terrorism into the backyards and main streets." The jury on Tuesday morning began what is expected to be a lengthy deliberation process on 30 total charges, before the so-called penalty phase, should he be found guilty on any counts. It took prosecutors months to present 131 witnesses to support their claim that Hernandez killed semi-pro player Odin Lloyd, yet on Monday, Hernandez's defense team wrapped up its witnesses in less than a day. Closing arguments are scheduled for Tuesday, and the jury will begin deliberations soon thereafter. Jurors in Fall River, Massachusetts, will be asked to decide if Hernandez is culpable in the shooting death of Lloyd, whose body was found in a Massachusetts industrial park in the summer of 2013. Much of the evidence against Hernandez is circumstantial, and among the facts the jury will be asked to take into consideration are New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft's testimony, the testimony of Hernandez's fiancee, some grainy footage from Hernandez's home security system and a footprint left by a Nike Air Jordan shoe. Hernandez known for swagger, even in court . OK, sure, no one was floored when the Kentucky senator announced his bid for the Oval Office, but of course it was news when he made it official Tuesday. Paul is expected to hit the campaign trail visiting the all-important early voters in New Hampshire, South Carolina, Iowa and Nevada. The physician rode a wave of tea party popularity into the Senate in 2010, where he carefully built a brand of mainstream libertarianism, and he is banking on a coalition of younger voters and traditional Republicans to usher him into the White House. Paul and Sen. Ted Cruz are the only declared candidates for the GOP nomination, though the field will certainly grow and could include the likes of Florida's Jeb Bush, New Jersey's Chris Christie, Wisconsin's Scott Walker, South Carolina's Lindsey Graham and Florida's Marco Rubio. Would Rand be here without Ron? It's the Windy City's first runoff for a citywide office, and it's being billed as a battle for the "future of Chicago." In one corner, you have Emanuel, President Barack Obama's notoriously hard-charging former chief of staff, and in the other, you have Jesus "Chuy" Garcia, a county commissioner who has come to embody populist and liberal Democrats' frustrations with the Chicago incumbent. After Emanuel failed to snare half the vote in February's general election, he will go head-to-head with Garcia. The timing is interesting, too, as Easter, Passover and spring break appear to have spurred more than 142,000 early votes, up from about 90,000 before the first round of voting in February. Following Michael Brown's death, the national spotlight shone on Ferguson, particularly how the city's predominantly black population is woefully underrepresented in its police force and City Council. Yet with all the hubbub about the face of civic leadership, only four in 10 city residents hit the polls in November to cast ballots. Residents speak out ahead of vote . Tuesday's election will bring change, no matter how the ballots are cast: Two black men are running for one of the open seats, and the current lone black council member isn't up for re-election. In another ward, two black women and two white men are vying for an open seat. And a white protester is running for a third post.
(CNN)A mammoth fire broke out Friday morning in a Kentucky industrial park, sending plumes of thick smoke over the area as authorities worked to contain the damage. The blaze began shortly before 7 a.m. at the General Electric Appliance Park in Louisville, according to Mike Weimer from the city's emergency management agency. He said that there were no reports of anyone injured or trapped. Video showed both smoke and bright orange flames. Firefighters took up positions around the affected buildings, spraying water from the periphery. Weimer told CNN that authorities didn't know what had caused the fire, which had gone to at least four alarms. According to a GE website, its facility in the Louisville Appliance Park is "revitalizing manufacturing in the United States." The park is large, such that 34 football fields could fit in one of its warehouses in the facility.
